Doc: Update timestamp and expiration_date (#2581)
mem0ai/mem0: docs/features/expiration-date.mdx

---
title: Expiration Date
description: 'Set time-bound memories in Mem0 with automatic expiration dates to manage temporal information effectively.'
icon: "clock"
iconType: "solid"
---

## Benefits of Memory Expiration

Setting expiration dates for memories offers several advantages:

• **Time-Sensitive Information Management**: Handle information that's only relevant for a specific time period.

• **Event-Based Memory**: Manage information related to upcoming events that becomes irrelevant after the event passes.

These benefits enable more sophisticated memory management for applications where temporal context matters.

## Setting Memory Expiration Date

You can set an expiration date for memories, after which they will no longer be retrieved in searches. This is useful for creating temporary memories or memories that are only relevant for a specific time period.

<CodeGroup>

```python Python
import datetime
from mem0 import MemoryClient

client = MemoryClient(api_key="your-api-key")

messages = [
    {
        "role": "user", 

>         "content": "I'll be in San Francisco until August 31st."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "content": "I'll be in San Francisco until end of this month."
```

    }
]

# Set an expiration date for this memory
client.add(messages=messages, user_id="alex", expiration_date=str(datetime.datetime.now().date() + datetime.timedelta(days=30)))

# You can also use an explicit date string
client.add(messages=messages, user_id="alex", expiration_date="2023-08-31")
```

```javascript JavaScript
import MemoryClient from 'mem0ai';
const client = new MemoryClient({ apiKey: 'your-api-key' });

const messages = [
    {
        "role": "user", 

>         "content": "I'll be in San Francisco until August 31st."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "content": "I'll be in San Francisco until end of this month."
```

    }
];

// Set an expiration date 30 days from now
const expirationDate = new Date();
expirationDate.setDate(expirationDate.getDate() + 30);
client.add(messages, { 
    user_id: "alex", 
    expiration_date: expirationDate.toISOString().split('T')[0] 
})
    .then(response => console.log(response))
    .catch(error => console.error(error));

// You can also use an explicit date string
client.add(messages, { 
    user_id: "alex", 
    expiration_date: "2023-08-31" 
})
    .then(response => console.log(response))
    .catch(error => console.error(error));
```

```bash cURL
curl -X POST "https://api.mem0.ai/v1/memories/" \
     -H "Authorization: Token your-api-key" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
         "messages": [
             {
                "role": "user", 

>                 "content": "I'll be in San Francisco until August 31st."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "content": "I'll be in San Francisco until end of this month."
```

            }
         ],
         "user_id": "alex",
         "expiration_date": "2023-08-31"
     }'
```

```json Output
{
    "results": [
        {
            "id": "a1b2c3d4-e5f6-4g7h-8i9j-k0l1m2n3o4p5",
            "data": {

>                 "memory": "In San Francisco until August 31st"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "memory": "In San Francisco until end of this month"
```
